KG Representation Learning
In recent years, an abundance of methods have been proposed for representation learning of KG. Translation-based models, as a powerful paradigm, have achieved promising performance in downstream tasks. TransE (Bordes et al., 2013b) regards a relationship as a translation from a head entity to a tail entity. However, it performs poorly on modeling 1-to-N, N-to-1 and N-to-N relationships. To mitigate this problem, a lot of variants of TransE have been proposed. For example, TransH (Wang et al., 2014b) regards a relationship as a hyperplane and projects head and tail entities into a relational-specific hyperplane. TransR (Lin et al., 2015) associates each relationship with a specific space when learning embeddings. TransD (Ji et al., 2015) further simplifies TransR by decomposing the projection matrix into a product of two vectors. TransG (Xiao et al., 2016) models entities as random variables with Gaussian distributions considering the uncertainty of entities. Recently, RotatE (Sun et al., 2019) extends translation-based models by representing relations as rotations in complex vector space.

Apart from translation-based models, semantic matching models using similarity-based scoring function have been explored (Yang et al., 2015; Trouillon et al., 2017; Kazemi and Poole, 2018; Bansal et al., 2019). There are also convolution based models for knowledge representation learning (Dettmers et al., 2018; Nathani et al., 2019). ConvE (Dettmers et al., 2018) applies a multi-layer convolutional network as the scoring function. GCN based models (Vashishth et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020) are proposed to further cover the hidden information in local neighborhood surrounding a triplet. Moreover, some recent works (Qu et al., 2021; Niu et al., 2020) design sophisticated scoring functions for reasoning on knowledge graphs, based on logic rules or reinforcement learning paradigm. One of the main limitations of the above methods is that they only utilize triplets in the KGs and suffer from the structure sparsity of the KGs.

To address the KG sparsity, text-enhanced KG representation has been extensively studied as a powerful augmentation method. For example, Socher et al. (2013) proposed a neural tensor network model exploiting the average word embeddings of an entity’s name to enhance its representation. Wang et al. (2014a) utilized entity names and Wikipedia anchors to align the embeddings of entities and words in the same space. Malaviya et al. (2020) exploited BERT to encode the entity names of commonsense KG. Zhong et al. (2015); Zhang et al. (2015); Veira et al. (2019) improved the model of (Wang et al., 2014a) with a new alignment model based on entity descriptions without utilizing anchors. However, these methods struggle with ambiguity within entity names. Hence Xie et al. (2016); Wang Z. et al. (2019) learned knowledge representations using concise descriptions of entities instead of entity names. Xu et al. (2017) proposed a gating mechanism to integrate both structure and textual representations. An et al. (2018) leveraged both entity descriptions and relationships mentions (Riedel et al., 2013; Toutanova et al., 2015) to further improve KG embedding. Qin et al. (2020) utilized generative adversarial networks to generate KG embeddings for unseen relations merely with noisy descriptions as input. Although these methods achieve improved performance, they fail to fully exploit the semantics of auxiliary texts. In these methods, each entity can only exploit the semantic information in the local consecutive word sequence of the short description, and ignore global relationships among entities and words. Moreover, the majority of them use CNN or LSTM-based for encoding texts, which are good at modeling semantic composition but less advantageous on capturing long-range correlations between entities and words within the descriptions.

Different from the existing works, in this work, we propose to model the whole auxiliary texts of entities as a text-graph and present a novel end-to-end text-graph enhanced KG representation learning model.

Graph Neural Networks
Graph Neural Networks have received wide attention recently. GCN (Kipf and Welling, 2017) has shown its power in embedding graph structures by enabling information propagating from neighboring nodes. The recent works utilize GCNs to encode more complicated pairwise relationships between entity/tokens. It has been proven that there is a rich variety of NLP problems that can be best expressed with a graph structure (Wu et al., 2021). Yao et al. (2019) proposed a GCN-based model viewed documents and words as nodes of a graph, allowing word and document embeddings jointly learned. Zhang et al. (2018) improved the performance of relationship extraction by utilizing GCN over dependency trees. Bastings et al. (2017) employed GCN to encode syntactic structure of sentences for machine translation. Some recent studies (Schlichtkrull et al., 2018) start to explore graph neural networks for knowledge base completion task, considering only the structural information of the KGs.

In this paper, we model the texts of entities as a graph and apply GCN for obtaining informative entity embeddings that encode textual information, in order to expand the KGs and alleviate the structure sparsity.

The Proposed Method
This section depicts our proposed text-graph enhanced KG representation learning model Teger. Teger improves tradional KG embeddings (e.g., TransE) by fully exploiting the auxiliary texts of entities (e.g., entity descriptions) which are represented as a text-graph, capturing both local and global long-range semantics of the texts.

Specifically, Teger consists of three components: (1) Triplet embedding. The triplet embedding aims to obtain structural entity embeddings (We use TransE as an exmaple in this work). (2) Auxiliary text encoding, which is to encode the semantics from auxiliary texts to enrich the KG. To capture both the local and global semantic relationships among entities and words, we first construct a text-graph from the auxiliary texts and then apply GCN to get entity embeddings by aggregating neighboring semantic information. (3) KG representation fusion. The GCN-yielded embeddings are furhter integrated with triplet embeddings through a gating mechanism, which alleviates the structure sparsity of the KGs. Figure 2 illustrates the three components of Teger.

Experimental Setup
Datasets. We evaluated our method Teger on two knowledge bases: FB15K which is a subset of Freebase Bollacker et al. (2008) and WN18 (Bordes et al., 2013b) which is a subset of WordNet. Both datasets come with textual descriptions of each entity, which we use as the auxiliary texts. Specifically, WordNet is a large lexical database of English with each entity as a synset which consists of several words and corresponds to a distinct word sense. Freebase is a large knowledge graph of general world facts. The dataset FB15K2 is offered by (Xie et al., 2016), which extracts a short description for each entity from its corresponding wiki-page. In FB15K, the average length of the entity descriptions is 69 after removing stop words. While for the dataset WN18, the length of entity descriptions is smaller, containing 13 words in average. The statistics of the datasets are detailed in Table 1. Note that for KGs where entity descriptions are absent, one can take the entities as queries and extract short text snippets describing the queries with search engines.